THE ONTOLOGY OF THE TEMPORAL LOGIC ENGINE

1. Events and The Now

A *Jiffy* is the largest period of time which is smaller than the temporal 
distance between any two quantifiable points in time. It is the atomic unit of 
processing.

An *event* is a unit of information existing in "The Now". An event is either
*caused* or *implied*. A caused event exists in "The Now" exactly one Jiffy
after its causation. An implied event exists in "The Now" instantaneously by
its implication.

"The Now" is the singular, persistent anchor of existence and causation. It
does not cease to exist; rather, it transcends the limits of any single Jiffy.
"The Now" is the vessel that holds *existence* of events. Events together with
their implications, exist inside "The Now" for exactly one Jiffy. 

The 'nature' of "The Now" is to 'host' events for a Jiffy and to let new 
events exist in the next Jiffy. The existence of subsequet events is 
determined by causation.

Implications of events in "The Now" are instantaneous and obey the *positive 
logic* of existence. That is, there is no operation of 'not event'. The 'not' 
operation is restricted to properties of the immutable history. In implications, 
properties of history can only appear in 'and' operations with events. In such 
a system *contradictions are impossible*. Given two properties of history 
'ever()' and 'never()' with their intuitive meaning, consider the implications:

    (1) A <= B and ever(C)
    (2) A <= B and never(C)

When C ever existed, (1) causes the existence of A, but (2) remains silent. If
C never existed, then (2) causes the existence of A and (1) remains silent. 
In "The Now," contradictions evaporate because the absence of an 
event is not a conflicting state, such as 'True' vs. 'False'. Logical operations
on history may very well contain operations of 'and', 'or', and 'not'.

This system prevents *circularities* in logical conclusions through 
*idempotence*. An implication can only be made based on the existence of its
basis of events. As soon as an implication is made, the implied event exists. 
As soon as an implication is made, it does not have to be done again, because
its basis, the existence of events and the history, are immutable. If an
event A implies event B and B implies A, the result is simply the existence
of both bringing the logical state to an immediate rest.
